# Solid Panels

Below is a listing of [Solid Panels](README.md#solid-panels). Solid Panels are groups of individuals focused on a specific problem or domain relevant to Solid, with an aim to propose changes to the Solid Specification, Solid Roadmap, and/or Supporting Documentation. Anyone may join a panel or suggest a new panel.

Anyone can create a Solid Panel by submitting a request to the Solid W3C community group mailing list, or by making a pull request directly to this document.

This listing helps people find panels in which they may want to participate, and helps editors find panels to consult as part of the editorial process.

## Example Panel
This is an example that people can use as a template for submitting their own panels. A description of the panel, including its focus and goal, should go here.

### Communication channels
- Link to join mailing list goes here
- Link to public chat goes here
- Any other public communication link goes here

### Panelists
- [Panellist Name](link to github profile) <[email@example.org](mailto:email@example.org)> (@github handle)
- [Panellist Name](link to github profile) <[email@example.org](mailto:email@example.org)> (@github handle)

## Index of Panels
* [Accessibility Panel](#accessibility-panel)
* [App Authorization Panel](#app-authorization)
* [Artificial Intelligence Panel](#artificial-intelligence-panel)
* [Authentication Panel](#authentication-panel)
* [Caching Panel](#caching-panel)
* [Client Side Libraries Panel](#client-side-libraries-panel)
* [Cryptography (Signing and Encryption) Panel](#cryptography-signing-and-encryption-panel)
* [Data Interoperability Panel](#data-interoperability)
* [Explaining the Vision Panel](#explaining-the-vision-panel)
* [External Interop and Outreach Panel](#external-interop-and-outreach-panel)
* [Identity Panel](#identity-panel)
* [Internationalisation Panel](#internationalisation-panel)
* [Natural Language Processing Panel](#natural-language-processing-panel)
* [Privacy and Individuals Rights Protection Panel](#privacy-and-individuals-rights-protection-panel)
* [Query Panel](#query-panel)
* [Specification Entry Document Panel](#specification-entry-document-panel)
* [Teaching Materials Panel](#teaching-material-panel)
* [Test Suite Panel](#test-suite-panel)

All Panels can be reached on [public-solid@w3.org](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-solid/)

## Accessibility Panel
How to ensure that the technical decisions are taking accessibility considerations into account.

### Communication channels
- [accessibility panel repository](https://github.com/solid/Accessibility-Panel)
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/accessibility-panel/2083) 

### Panelists
- [Sina Bahram](https://github.com/spudthebud) <[sina@sinabahram.com](mailto:sina@sinabahram.com)> (@spudthebud)
- [elf Pavlik](https://github.com/elf-pavlik) <[elf-pavlik@hackers4peace.net](mailto:elf-pavlik@hackers4peace.net)> (@elf-pavlik)

## App Authorization
How do apps request access to specific containers, shapes, and/or realms of a user's data.

### Communication channels
- [app authorisation repository](https://github.com/solid/app-authorization-panel/issues/) 
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/app-authorisation/2088) 
- [app authorisation gitter channel](https://gitter.im/solid/app-authorization-panel)

### Panelists
- [Michiel de Jong](https://github.com/michielbdejong) <[michieldj@inrupt.com](mailto:michieldj@inrupt.com)> (@michielbdejong)
- [Dmitri Zagidulin](https://github.com/dmitrizagidulin) <[dzagidulin@gmail.com](mailto:dzagidulin@gmail.com)> (@dmitrizagidulin)
- [Michael Thornburgh](https://github.com/zenomt) <[mthornbu@adobe.com](mailto:mthornbu@adobe.com)> (@zenomt)
- [Justin Bingham](https://github.com/justinwb) <[justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com](mailto:justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com)> (@justinwb)
- [Jackson Morgan](https://github.com/jaxoncreed) <[jacksonm@inrupt.com](mailto:jacksonm@inrupt.com)> (@jaxoncreed)

## Artificial Intelligence Panel
To discuss Artificial Intelligence for Solid

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/artificial-intelligence-panel/2122)
- [artificial intelligence panel repository](https://github.com/solid/Artificial-Intelligence-Panel)

### Panelists
* [Tom](https://github.com/sideshowtom) <[sideshowtom@yahoo.com](mailto:sideshowtom@yahoo.com)> (@sideshowtom) 

## Authentication Panel
Discussion and specs relating to Authentication and Auth Delegation protocols, including:
* [WebID-OIDC](https://github.com/solid/webid-oidc-spec) auth delegation protocol
* [WebID-TLS](http://www.w3.org/2005/Incubator/webid/spec/tls) auth delegation protocol
* Username + password recommendations for local authentication
* [WebAuthentication](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/) (proposed future integration)
* DID Authentication (proposed future integration)
* HTTP Signatures (proposed future integration)

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/authentication-panel/2086) 
- [authentication panel repository](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel) 

### Panelists
- [Dmitri Zagidulin](https://github.com/dmitrizagidulin) <[dzagidulin@gmail.com](mailto:dzagidulin@gmail.com)> (@dmitrizagidulin)
- [Paul Worrall](https://github.com/pjworrall) <[paulw@inrupt.com](mailto:paulw@inrupt.com)> (@pjworrall)
- [Michael Thornburgh](https://github.com/zenomt) <[mthornbu@adobe.com](mailto:mthornbu@adobe.com)> (@zenomt)
- [Justin Bingham](https://github.com/justinwb) <[justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com](mailto:justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com)> (@justinwb)
- [Jackson Morgan](https://github.com/jaxoncreed) <[jacksonm@inrupt.com](mailto:jacksonm@inrupt.com)> (@jaxoncreed)
- [Aaron Coburn](https://github.com/acoburn) <[aaronc@inrupt.com](mailto:aaronc@inrupt.com)> (@acoburn)

## Caching Panel
Ensure that caching mechanisms, both currently standardized and future standards are employed within Solid.

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/caching-panel/2115)
- [caching panel repository](https://github.com/solid/caching-panel)

### Panelists
- [Kjetil Kjernsmo](https://github.com/orgs/solid/people/kjetilk) <[kjetil@inrupt.com](mailto:kjetil@inrupt.com)> (@kjetilk)

## Client Side Libraries Panel
(aim to be inserted here) 

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/client-side-libraries-panel/2095)
- [client side libraries panel repository](https://github.com/solid/client-side-libraries-panel)

### Panelists
- [Ruben Verborgh](https://github.com/RubenVerborgh) <[Ruben.Verborgh@UGent.be](mailto:Ruben.Verborgh@UGent.be)>(@RubenVerborgh)
- [Jeff Zucker](https://github.com/jeff-zucker) <[dubzed@gmail.com](mailto:dubzed@gmail.com)> (@jeff-zucker)

## Cryptography (Signing and Encryption) Panel
Discussion and specs related to performing decentralized Key Management, Cryptographic Signatures (including integration with [Verifiable Credentials](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/)), and at-rest data Encryption on Solid servers.

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/cryptography-signing-and-encryption-panel/2091) 
- [Cryptography (Signing and Encryption) Panel Repository](https://github.com/solid/cryptography-signing-and-encryption-panel)

### Panelists
- [Dmitri Zagidulin](https://github.com/dmitrizagidulin) <[dzagidulin@gmail.com](mailto:dzagidulin@gmail.com)> (@dmitrizagidulin)
- [Paul Worrall](https://github.com/pjworrall) <[paulw@inrupt.com](mailto:paulw@inrupt.com)> (@pjworrall)
- [Justin Bingham](https://github.com/justinwb) <[justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com](mailto:justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com)> (@justinwb)
- [Kjetil Kjernsmo](https://github.com/orgs/solid/people/kjetilk) <[kjetil@inrupt.com](mailto:kjetil@inrupt.com)> (@kjetilk)
- [Rob McColl](https://github.com/robmccoll) <[rob@nix.software](mailto:rob@nix.software)> (@robmccoll)

## Data Interoperability
Ensuring the interoperability of data as it is read and written by different users and/or applications. Topics of discussion will include vocabularies, shapes, footprints, and the mechanisms through which these work together to provide consistent and safe access and manipulation of data in a pod by different agents and/or users.

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/data-interoperability/2090) 
- [data-interoperability-repository](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel)

### Panelists
- [Dmitri Zagidulin](https://github.com/dmitrizagidulin) <[dzagidulin@gmail.com](mailto:dzagidulin@gmail.com)> (@dmitrizagidulin)
- [Justin Bingham](https://github.com/justinwb) <[justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com](mailto:justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com)> (@justinwb)
- [Eric Prud'hommeaux](https://github.com/ericprud) <[eric@w3.org](mailto:eric@w3.org)> (@ericprud)
- [Max Dor](https://github.com/maxidorius) <[max@dorius.io](mailto:max@dorius.io)> (@maxidorius) 
- [James Schoening](https://github.com/jimschoening) <[james.r.schoening.civ@mail.mil](mailto:james.r.schoening.civ@mail.mil)> (@jimschoening)
- [Jose Emilio Labra Gayo](http://labra.weso.es) <[jelabra@gmail.com](mailto:jelabra@gmail.com)> (@labra)
- [Ruben Verborgh](https://github.com/RubenVerborgh) <[Ruben.Verborgh@UGent.be](mailto:Ruben.Verborgh@UGent.be)>(@RubenVerborgh)
- [Kjetil Kjernsmo](https://github.com/orgs/solid/people/kjetilk) <[kjetil@inrupt.com](mailto:kjetil@inrupt.com)> (@kjetilk)
- [Jason Reynolds](https://github.com/orgs/solid/people/JKReynolds) <[jason.reynolds@polarisalpha.com](mailto:jason.reynolds@polarisalpha.com)> (@JKReynolds)

## Explaining the Vision Panel
Taking the suggestions on the channels listed below to produce proposals explaining [what is Solid](https://github.com/solid/roadmap/blob/master/what-is-solid.md) and the [Solid vision, mission, and values](https://github.com/solid/roadmap/blob/master/solid-mission-vision-values.md). 

Related conversations to take into consideration: 
* https://github.com/solid/information/pull/202
* https://github.com/solid/information/issues/180 
* https://github.com/solid/roadmap/pull/1
* https://github.com/solid/roadmap/pull/3
* https://github.com/solid/roadmap/pull/4
* https://github.com/solid/roadmap/pull/5
* https://github.com/solid/roadmap/pull/6
* https://github.com/solid/roadmap/pull/7
* https://github.com/solid/roadmap/pull/8
* https://github.com/solid/roadmap/pull/9

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/explaining-the-vision-panel/2089) 
- [GitHub team discussion board](https://github.com/orgs/solid/teams/explaining-the-vision-panel/discussions)
- [Explaining the Visions Solid Github Repository](https://github.com/solid/Explaining-the-Vision-Panel) 
- most converstation about "What is Solid" is here https://github.com/solid/Explaining-the-Vision-Panel/issues/1#issuecomment-518300433

### Panelists
- [Dan Wilkinson](https://github.com/danwilkinsoncreative) <[dan@get-even.co.uk](mailto:dan@get-even.co.uk)> (@danwilkinsoncreative)
- [Paul Worrall](https://github.com/pjworrall) <[paulw@inrupt.com](mailto:paulw@inrupt.com)> (@pjworrall)
- [Ruben Verborgh](https://github.com/RubenVerborgh) <[Ruben.Verborgh@UGent.be](mailto:Ruben.Verborgh@UGent.be)>(@RubenVerborgh)
- [Justin Bingham](https://github.com/justinwb) <[justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com](mailto:justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com)> (@justinwb)
- [Kjetil Kjernsmo](https://github.com/orgs/solid/people/kjetilk) <[kjetil@inrupt.com](mailto:kjetil@inrupt.com)> (@kjetilk)

## External Interop and Outreach Panel
How to technically link to other initiatives to build positive win-win
collaborations. You can find a list of similar initiatives to Solid with a comparision description [here](https://github.com/solid/information/blob/master/initiatives.md). 

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/external-interop-and-outreach-panel/2080) 
- [external-interop repository](https://github.com/solid/external-interop)

### Panelists
- [Dmitri Zagidulin](https://github.com/dmitrizagidulin) <[dzagidulin@gmail.com](mailto:dzagidulin@gmail.com)> (@dmitrizagidulin)
- [David H. Mason](https://github.com/vid) <[vid_github_solid_outreach@zooid.org](mailto:vid_github_solid_outreach@zooid.org)> (@vid)

## Identity Panel
Discussions and specs for expanding the capabilities of Solid's WebID identity system, including user profiles, [Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-spec/), and related standards.

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/identity-panel/2085) 
- [identity panel repository](https://github.com/solid/identity-panel) 

### Panelists
- [Dmitri Zagidulin](https://github.com/dmitrizagidulin) <[dzagidulin@gmail.com](mailto:dzagidulin@gmail.com)> (@dmitrizagidulin)
- [Paul Worrall](https://github.com/pjworrall) <[paulw@inrupt.com](mailto:paulw@inrupt.com)> (@pjworrall)
- [Justin Bingham](https://github.com/justinwb) <[justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com](mailto:justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com)> (@justinwb)

## Internationalisation Panel
To ensure internationalisation is taken into consideration during the Solid design.

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/internationalisation-panel/2082) 
- [internationalisation panel repository](https://github.com/solid/internationalisation-panel)

### Panelists
- [King Wang](https://github.com/kingwang88) <[kingwang@hsfranchise.com](mailto:kingwang@hsfranchise.com)> (@kingwang88)
- [Philip Laszkowicz](https://github.com/HelloFillip) <[phil@fillip.pro](mailto:phil@fillip.pro)> (@HelloFillip)
- [elf Pavlik](https://github.com/elf-pavlik) <[elf-pavlik@hackers4peace.net](mailto:elf-pavlik@hackers4peace.net)> (@elf-pavlik)

## Natural Language Processing Panel
To discuss Natural Language Processing for Solid

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/natural-language-processing-panel/2123)
- [Natural Language Processing Panel Repository](https://github.com/solid/natural-language-processing-panel)

### Panelists
* [Tom](https://github.com/sideshowtom) <[sideshowtom@yahoo.com](mailto:sideshowtom@yahoo.com)> (@sideshowtom) 

## Privacy and Individuals Rights Protection Panel
The focus of this panel is to ensure Privacy is always kept in mind in the various proposals of the project across all panels, and that individuals' rights are inherently protected in the Solid ecosystem.

It will do so by:
- Leading Privacy discussions and initiatives.
- Reviewing the proposals of other panels for anything Privacy related, and provide guidance to them if requested.
- Researching how the technical side of the project (specification, implementations):
  - Can affect the Privacy of individuals; Per example by unexpectedly leaking information in the protocol itself.
  - Affect their rights; Per example by making it difficult for them to find privacy policies or delete remote content.
  - Lead to any kind of harm to the individual; Per example, by allowing a malicious individual to publish private content unchecked.
- Ensuring practical guides are produced for individuals and Data Privacy Officers alike, allowing them to know how to deal with their legal rights and obligations respectively.
- Making sure laws like GDPR are directly taken into account when designing new feature / product / software.

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/privacy-and-individuals-rights-protection-panel/2094)
- [Privacy and Individuals Rights Protection Panel repository](https://github.com/solid/privacy-and-individuals-rights-protection-panel/tree/master) 
- [gitter channel](https://gitter.im/solid/Privacy-and-Individuals-Rights-Protection-Panel--#)

### Panelists
- [Max Dor](https://github.com/maxidorius) <[max@dorius.io](mailto:max@dorius.io)> (@maxidorius) 

## Query Panel
Discussion, specs and recommendations for implementing querying mechanisms beyond LDP, such as SPARQL, [Triple Pattern Fragments (TPF)](http://linkeddatafragments.org/in-depth/), GraphQL, and others.

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/query-panel/2087) 
- [solid-tpf](https://github.com/solid/solid-tpf) 

### Panelists
- [Dmitri Zagidulin](https://github.com/dmitrizagidulin) <[dzagidulin@gmail.com](mailto:dzagidulin@gmail.com)> (@dmitrizagidulin)
- [Aaron Coburn](https://github.com/acoburn) <[aaronc@inrupt.com](mailto:aaronc@inrupt.com)> (@acoburn)
- [Ruben Verborgh](https://github.com/RubenVerborgh) <[Ruben.Verborgh@UGent.be](mailto:Ruben.Verborgh@UGent.be)>(@RubenVerborgh)
- [Kjetil Kjernsmo](https://github.com/orgs/solid/people/kjetilk) <[kjetil@inrupt.com](mailto:kjetil@inrupt.com)> (@kjetilk)
- [Jeff Zucker](https://github.com/jeff-zucker) <[dubzed@gmail.com](mailto:dubzed@gmail.com)> (@jeff-zucker)

## Specification Entry Document Panel
To create a structure for the document at https://github.com/solid/specification/, and the division in documents it links to and well as translating the community consensus regarding the application of the specifications mentioned in this document into a clear, unambiguous and implementable text.

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/specification-entry-document-panel/2084) 
- [Specification Entry Document Panel repository](https://github.com/solid/specification-entry-document-panel)

### Panelists
- [Ruben Verborgh](https://github.com/RubenVerborgh) <[Ruben.Verborgh@UGent.be](mailto:Ruben.Verborgh@UGent.be)>(@RubenVerborgh)
- [Kjetil Kjernsmo](https://github.com/orgs/solid/people/kjetilk) <[kjetil@inrupt.com](mailto:kjetil@inrupt.com)> (@kjetilk)
- [Sarven Capadisli](https://github.com/csarven) <[csarven@inrupt.com](mailto:csarven@inrupt.com)> (@csarven)
- [Justin Bingham](https://github.com/justinwb) <[justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com](mailto:justin.bingham@janeirodigital.com)> (@justinwb)
- [King Wang](https://github.com/kingwang88) <[kingwang@hsfranchise.com](mailto:kingwang@hsfranchise.com)> (@kingwang88)

## Teaching Material Panel
The Solid Teaching Material Panel has the aim to produce content to be able to effectively teach people to build Solid identity providers, Pods, and apps. The Solid teaching material can be found in [this file](https://github.com/solid/information/tree/master/documentation). [Documentation.md](https://github.com/solid/information/blob/master/documentation/documentation.md) is a place that gives an overview of all the content in this file and links to it. 

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/solid-teaching-material-panel/2081) 
- [Teaching Material Panel Repository](https://github.com/solid/teaching-material-panel)

### Panelists
- [Vincent Tunru](https://github.com/Vinnl) <[vincentt@inrupt.com](mailto:vincentt@inrupt.com)> (@Vinnl)
- [Jose Emilio Labra Gayo](http://labra.weso.es) <[jelabra@gmail.com](mailto:jelabra@gmail.com)> (@labra)
- [King Wang](https://github.com/kingwang88) <[kingwang@hsfranchise.com](mailto:kingwang@hsfranchise.com)> (@kingwang88)
- [Raul R Pearson](https://github.com/orgs/solid/people/raulrpearson) (@raulrpearson)
- [Arne Hassel](https://github.com/orgs/solid/people/megoth) <[arneh@inrupt.com](mailto:arneh@inrupt.com)> (@megoth)
- [Jackson Morgan](https://github.com/jaxoncreed) <[jacksonm@inrupt.com](mailto:jacksonm@inrupt.com)> (@jaxoncreed)
- [Dan Wilkinson](https://github.com/danwilkinsoncreative) <[dan@get-even.co.uk](mailto:dan@get-even.co.uk)> (@danwilkinsoncreative)
- Kartika Tulusan @artificialgods_gitlab  
 
## Test Suite Panel
Include the test suite in the Solid specification.

### Communication channels
- [dedicated forum thread](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/test-suite-panel/2092) 
- [Test Suite Repository](https://github.com/solid/test-suite)
- [Test Suite Gitter Channel](https://gitter.im/solid/test-suite)

### Panelists
- [Aaron Coburn](https://github.com/acoburn) <[aaronc@inrupt.com](mailto:aaronc@inrupt.com)> (@acoburn)
- [elf Pavlik](https://github.com/elf-pavlik) <[elf-pavlik@hackers4peace.net](mailto:elf-pavlik@hackers4peace.net)> (@elf-pavlik)
- [Jackson Morgan](https://github.com/jaxoncreed) <[jacksonm@inrupt.com](mailto:jacksonm@inrupt.com)> (@jaxoncreed)
- [Kjetil Kjernsmo](https://github.com/orgs/solid/people/kjetilk) <[kjetil@inrupt.com](mailto:kjetil@inrupt.com)> (@kjetilk)
- [Scott McWhirter](https://github.com/orgs/solid/people/konobi) <[scott@konobi.co.uk](mailto:scott@konobi.co.uk)> (@konobi)
- [Michiel de Jong](https://github.com/orgs/solid/people/michielbdejong) <[michieldj@inrupt.com](mailto:michieldj@inrupt.com)> (@michielbdejong)
